---
tags:
  - thoughts
aliases:
  - gios
---
My first class I took at Georgia Tech's OMSCS program was cs-6200, or Graduate Introduction to Operating Systems (**GIOS**). I took it in **Spring 2024**. This is my first formal CS class, ever. I took a couple in college but they were mostly fluff and designed around numerical applications of code. I took it alongside [[cs-7674|ml4t]]. 

I loved the class. It's probably my favorite class I've taken in anything, ever. 

In GIOS, the cool thing is that the projects are open-ended. All you have to do is pass a test suite they provided. For Project 1, I did it strictly by the book. For Project 3, I did something very weird and zany to the point where the Autograder actually got confused by my project, leading to a manual grading required. Project 4 was my least favorite: it uses gRPC and C++, and I ended up disliking both by the end of it.

### Notes I wrote because of this class

[[sending-fds-through-uds]]: I utilized this in Project 3.

[[fcntl-atomic-locks]]: I utilized this in Project 3, though I had to scrap my usage of it because I discovered it doesn't work as expected.

[[macos-native-docker]]: The class environment is an Ubuntu 20.04 x86 environment, I needed to run a class-provided docker image to perfectly replicate our testing environment to make sure I wasn't dealing with quirks. I use a M1 Pro Macbook 14 that I absolutely adore, and didn't want to deal with a Cloud VM to develop.

[[basic-fstream]]: I spent over 3 hours debugging this problem in Project 4. I hate C++. 

[[destructive-moves]]: A design choice I made in Project 4 was rendered impossible due to this. 